Marcelo Ferreira Cosmópolis/SP Cellphone: +55 (61) 99922-0052 E-mail: marcelo.ferreira.dsa@gmail.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/marcelo-ferreira-dsa/ Profile Highly skilled and accomplished professional with a diverse background in strategic advisory roles within Banco do Brasil's Operations Unit. With over six years of experience as a Senior Strategic Advisor, I have consistently demonstrated expertise in data analytics, process improvement, and project management. Proficient in database modeling, ETL processes, and dashboard development, I have successfully led initiatives to enhance operational efficiency and drive business growth. My communicate technical concepts to non- technical stakeholders and implement data-driven solutions has resulted in significant cost savings and improved decision-making across multiple teams. Leveraging my strong background in operations management, I am adept at designing and implementing strategies to streamline processes and optimize resource allocation. With a proven track record of delivering results and a commitment to continuous improvement, I am well- equipped to excel in dynamic and challenging environments. Academic Education ● Postgraduate degree in Science/Information Studies – MBA USP/Esalq – 2024 ● Foundation on Statistics, R programming and Machine Learning – 2023 ● Bachelor in Philosophy – Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina – 2018 WORK EXPERIENCE Managed requirements gathering, overseeing external tech team development to ensure quality and Continuously identified and implemented process improvements, prioritizing through metrics, and Experienced in requirements gathering for both local department software development and corporate MAY 2020 – APRIL 2022 SENIOR STRATEGIC ADVISOR, BANCO DO BRASIL – OPERATIONS UNIT – ANALYTICS TEAM • coordinated end-to-end project development while negotiating and communicating results to stakeholders. • suitability in both cascade and agile methods. • legacy systems development teams. • within Operations Unit. • • • features in non-technical language. • Operations Unit umbrella targeting over eleven thousand employees. • Select and acquire data from diverse sources to support team objectives and projects. Modeled, designed, and maintained DB2 and MySQL databases, overseeing all ETL processes. Advised internal and external consultants as a Subject Matter Expert in communicating technical Mapped, planned and implemented actions to leverage data-driven culture for all departments under Planned, collected requirements, developed, and implemented tailor-made dashboards for all areas Designed and conducted workshops for operational and management audiences. MARCH 2018 – APRIL 2020 SENIOR STRATEGIC ADVISOR, BANCO DO BRASIL – OPERATIONS UNIT – CASH MANAGEMENT TEAM • Designed and implemented KPIs, visualizations to monitor their progress, and the complete data infrastructure, including database modeling, ETL processes, data source selection, and screen scraping (when needed). • Designed and reviewed operational processes. Control and manage national and foreign currency cash balance. Wrote all internal rules and regulations for operational processes. Elaborated a forecast model for foreign currency demand what reduced risks and costs due to unused • • • balance and unnecessary imports. • Designed visuals to control the balance of all foreign currency internal accounts what ultimately have led to locate the origin of more than USD 2.5 million unreconciled balances. This solved a two-year long problem that have exposed the bank to legal risks and reduced the probability of new unreconciled balances. Conducted requirements gathering for both local department software development and corporate Mapped, designed and reviewed all transactions executed by employees and clients on physical and Elaborated and conducted result presentations for all executives and other major stakeholders involved DECEMBER 2015 – FEBRUARY 2018 SENIOR STRATEGIC ADVISOR, BANCO DO BRASIL – OPERATIONS UNIT – TELLER MANAGEMENT TEAM • digital channels. • on the project. • legacy systems development teams, ensuring the applicability of the final product • • norms. • Planned, negotiated and implemented actions to reduce demand for physical channels, mostly bank tellers and ATMs, and redirect them to digital channels what reduced teller transactions from 74 million/month to 45 million/month in a two-year span what represents over USD 30 million /year cost reduction only over transaction costs. Negotiated strategic actions with executives from all involved areas. Mapped, designed and reviewed operational processes writing extensive documentation and internal Other experiences within Banco do Brasil S/A: ● Full Advisor/TCX Management – November 2014 to November 2015 ● Full Advisor/TAA Management – July 2013 to October 2014 ● Junior Advisor – January 2011 to June 2013 Languages ● English: Advanced / Spanish: Basic Skills ● Python ● Agile Methodologies • Power BI • Communication • Teamwork • Data Modeling • SQL e MySQL • Lidership Courses ● Internal Auditor ISO 27001 – Bureau Veritas ● Python for Data Science, AI & Development – Coursera ● Databases and SQL for Data Science – Coursera ● Python for Data Science and AI – Coursera ● Machine Learning – Data Science Academy OTHER ACTIVITIES As the founder and sole manager of a tech startup, I'm leveraging my business analysis and strategic skills to carve out a niche in the market. Responsible for establishing the company's vision, mission, and values, developing the business plan, creating a visual identity, and strategizing product development tailored to our target audience. I initiated the comprehensive development of our website and am planning strategic partnerships, while maintaining a continuous learning plan to ensure my skills remain relevant. I am committed to strategic growth and innovation, balancing company development demands with personal financial stability needs.