SENIOR DATA SCIENTIST

As a Data Scientist, you will balance being a prolific individual contributor to our pipelines, tables, and
models while steering the development of our products and services through the development,
maintenance, and application of data. You will help bridge the gap between Engineering & Modeling
with insights while driving the development of our data services. In addition, you will help to set the
culture, rituals, and processes that underpin a high-functioning team and the organization more
broadly.

AS A DATA SCIENTIST YOU WILL:

● Build tools to manage data science modelling and development pipelines.

● Development of monitoring for models and data sources; training models for validating
correctness of inputs and matching data points to companies.

● Build tools to support data extraction, matching and validation from structured and unstructured
data sources.

● Manage the model deployment process and support other team members as they deploy their
models post-development.

● Develop testing strategies to ensure our data and models perform accurately across systems.

● Support the production of new data sources (e.g. web scraping, public/private APIs,) in a
manner that minimizes development cycles while maximizing potential business applications.

● Maintain a clean production environment such that the data models can be easily interpreted and
built upon by other data science and engineering team members.

● Present your work, findings, and opinions to both technical and non-technical stakeholders.


WE LOOK FOR TEAMMATES WHO HAVE:

● Bachelor/Master in quantitative discipline (computer science, mathematics, statistics,
economics, physics, engineering or related field).

● Experience with data engineering projects such as ETL, model deployment, data validation,
feature calculation.

● Familiarity with how data science teams review and validate data and machine learning models

● An excellent understanding of API design, and experience designing reliable RESTful APIs.

● 5+ years experience with Python

● Familiarity with the tradeoffs of scaling data infrastructure and database systems.

● Bias to practical action and creativity using data (we value past or present projects that support
this).






1.	Build tools to manage data science modelling and development pipelines.

2.	Development of monitoring for models and data sources; training models for validating correctness of inputs and matching data points to companies.

3.	Build tools to support data extraction, matching and validation from structured and unstructured data sources.

4.	Manage the model deployment process and support other team members as they deploy their models post-development.

5.	Develop testing strategies to ensure our data and models perform accurately across systems.

6.	Support the production of new data sources (e.g. web scraping, public/private APIs,) in a manner that minimizes development cycles while maximizing potential business applications.

7.	Maintain a clean production environment such that the data models can be easily interpreted and built upon by other data science and engineering team members.

8.	Present your work, findings, and opinions to both technical and non-technical stakeholders.

9.	Experience with data engineering projects such as ETL, model deployment, data validation, feature calculation.

10.	Familiarity with how data science teams review and validate data and machine learning models

11.	An excellent understanding of API design, and experience designing reliable RESTful APIs.

12.	Familiarity with the tradeoffs of scaling data infrastructure and database systems.

13.	Bias to practical action and creativity using data (we value past or present projects that support this).
